It's time to apply some measures
and it's also time to apply those measures to our project file,
let's see how this works.
So here I am back in our course project and I am in the data view and in the FACT-Population table.
Now we want to add measures and I think the best way is if we just start, right?
So let's do this by going to the modeling ribbon and now we don't select new column like we did it
before but now we select new measure, like this.
Let's press that and let's name that measure total population because that's what it's going to calculate,
it will just give us out the total amount of all the population that we have in our dataset. To do this,
we simply write sum like this and press tab
and as you can see here, we can now refer to different tables with that measure but we only want to have
the measure of the FACT-Population population table,
so right here. Now if I double-click that and press enter, then you can see nothing, right?
So there wasn't any column added
and this is also a difference to the calculated columns that we had before, as a measure is only a single
value,
you cannot see it in the actual data model, at least not in that area,
you can only see it when we use it in a visualization and it's also only calculated when you use it
which makes it less memory consuming when comparing it to a calculated column
but of course, you can see it right there, in that fields column.
Here we have the total population measure,
now let's go to report view and see how we can apply such a measure. To do this,
we simply select a report view right here and here we still have our great population chart.
I don't think we need that anymore
but nevertheless let's keep it and rename that report page to relationships and you can simply rename
that by clicking down here on the name and now call it relationships, like this and pressing enter
of course in the end.
Now if you press plus right here, you can add a second page and we will name that page measurers and
press enter.
Now that we got that,
let's create a simple visualization,
again our column chart.
So I'm clicking right here and I'm positioning it right there,
this is fine actually.
Now if you go to the FACT-Population table in the fields column, you can find that total population measure
right here with that calculator symbol in front of it.
Now if you simply use it and drag it into the visualization for instance, then you can see it right here.
Of course you don't have to drag it into a visualization,
you can also put it right here into the value area,
however this is not a really great visualization for the moment but it shows you that this measure works
as soon as we use it
in a visualization.
Now let's go back to the data view,
here we are
and as a second measure, I would like to add the average population.
Let's do that by clicking new measure again,
now name it population average and you will see why I turn the name around this time and we will write that
formula just as we did it with the sum formula.
So we simply write average like this, press tab and now select again the FACT-Population table and the
population column and press enter.
Now we have the population average measure right here
and I would like to rename that measure quickly,
so I will simply select the total population measure, delete the total part right here and write
population total and press enter.
The reason why I'm doing this is that the names are sorted alphabetically right here and I want to keep
the measures, so the population measures in that part.
However if we now go back to our report view and create a new visualization by clicking here and writing
it right there
and now simply use the population average and now drag it to the value area right here,
we can see that we now visualized the population average with that measure.
Now those were some basic measures of course but let's find out some more things that we could do with
that measure function,
so back to the data view, right here.
So what we want to do right now is we want to calculate the total female population,
so we need to set a filter that it only takes the total value if the gender is female.
Let's see how this works in the next video.